Excel Assignment - 17

1. What are modules in VBA and describe in detail the importance of
creating a module?

Sol: A module is the fundamental syntactic unit of VBA source code. The physical representation of a module is implementation dependent but logically a VBA module is a sequence of Unicode characters that conform to the VBA language grammars.

 A module consists of two parts: a module header and a module body:-

 a) The module header is a set of attributes consisting of name/value pairs that specify the certain linguistic characteristics of a module.

 b) A module body consists of actual VBA Language source code and most typically is directly written by a human programmer.

  VBA supports two kinds of modules, procedural modules and class modules, whose contents MUST conform to the grammar productions <procedural-module> 
  and <class-module>, respectively:-

 Eg - procedural-module = LINE-START procedural-module-header EOS 
                     LINE-START procedural-module-body 
 class-module = LINE-START class-module-header  
                LINE-START class-module-body 
  
 procedural-module-header = attribute "VB_Name" attr-eq quoted-identifier attr-end 
  
 class-module-header = 1*class-attr 
  
 class-attr = attribute "VB_Name" attr-eq quoted-identifier attr-end 
      /  attribute "VB_GlobalNameSpace" attr-eq "False" attr-end 
      /  attribute "VB_Creatable" attr-eq "False" attr-end 
      /  attribute "VB_PredeclaredId" attr-eq boolean-literal-identifier attr-end 
      /  attribute "VB_Exposed" attr-eq boolean-literal-identifier attr-end 
      /  attribute "VB_Customizable" attr-eq boolean-literal-identifier attr-end 
 attribute = LINE-START "Attribute" 
 attr-eq = "=" 
 attr-end = LINE-END 
  
 quoted-identifier = double-quote NO-WS IDENTIFIER NO-WS double-quote


2. What is Class Module and what is the difference between a Class
Module and a Module?

Sol: VBA module is a container for code that can be used to create functions and procedures. It is typically used for organizing code into logical units. On the other hand, a class module is a special type of module that allows you to create custom objects with their own properties, methods, and events.

a) Code Reusability: With VBA modules, you can write reusable code snippets that can be called from multiple places in your Excel application.
   It's like having a repertoire of cooking recipes that you can use in different dishes.

b) Easier Debugging: By compartmentalizing your code into modules, you can isolate and troubleshoot issues more efficiently. It's like finding the
   exact screw that's causing your clock to malfunction instead of disassembling the entire mechanism.

c) Improved Readability: VBA modules allow you to break down your code into smaller, more digestible sections. It's like dividing a complex novel 
   into chapters, making it easier to follow the story.

d) Flexible Execution: Modules enable you to control when and how your code executes. It's like having the power to turn on specific lights in 
   our house at different times of the day, creating the perfect ambiance.


3. What are Procedures? What is a Function Procedure and a Property
Procedure?

Sol: A procedure is a named section of code that is run as a unit. Procedures come in the form of Subs, Functions, Property procedures, Events procedures, and DLL procedures. To call a procedure is to invoke it, executing its code, before control is yielded back to its caller.

Functions:-

Always return a value
Can be used as spreadsheet functions
Used to assign or retrieve the values of properties
Are usually used in class modules to control public access to private members


4. What are Procedures? What is a Function Procedure and a Property
Procedure?

Sol: A procedure is a named section of code that is run as a unit. Procedures come in the form of Subs, Functions, Property procedures, Events procedures, and DLL procedures. To call a procedure is to invoke it, executing its code, before control is yielded back to its caller.

A property procedure is a series of Visual Basic statements that manipulate a custom property on a module, class, or structure. Property procedures are also known as property accessors. Visual Basic provides for the following property procedures: A Get procedure returns the value of a property.

5. What is a sub procedure and what are all the parts of a sub procedure
and when are they used?

Sol: A Sub procedure is a series of Visual Basic statements enclosed by the Sub and End Sub statements. The Sub procedure performs a task and then returns control to the calling code, but it does not return a value to the calling code.

It begins with a Sub keyword and ends with End Sub keywords. A subprocedure is also called a subroutine. It is used to execute a certain block of statements consists the body of the procedure. It is called explicitly by its name whenever it is required to perform a certain.

Syntax-

[modifiers] Sub SubName[(parameterList)]
    ' Statements of the Sub procedure.
End Sub

Eg- 

Sub tellOperator(ByVal task As String)
    Dim stamp As Date
    stamp = TimeOfDay()
    MsgBox("Starting " & task & " at " & CStr(stamp))
End Sub



6. How do you add comments in a VBA code? How do you add multiple
lines of comments in a VBA code?

Sol: Add a Comment in a VBA Code:- 

1. First, click on the line where you want to insert the comment.
2. After that, type an APOSTROPHE using your keyboard key.
3. Next, type the comment that you want to add to the code.
4. In the end, hit enter to move to the new line and the comment will turn green.

a) Helps you to Document your Work: You can use a comment to describe how code works, which can help you in the future to recall it easily or any other user.

b) Track the Changes: If some codes need you to change them frequently you can use comments to track or record changes within the code.

c) Describe a Function Procedure: When you write a procedure you can add a comment at the starting to describe the purpose of this procedure and how it works.

d) Describe a Variable: Variables are one of the most important things that you need to use while writing a VBA code and you can use a comment to describe a variable.

e) Debug our Code: We can use VBA comments to debug the code by converting code lines into comments for testing.


7. How do you add comments in a VBA code? How do you add multiple
lines of comments in a VBA code?

Sol: Add a Comment in a VBA Code:- 

1. First, click on the line where you want to insert the comment.

2. After that, type an APOSTROPHE using your keyboard key.

3. Next, type the comment that you want to add to the code.

4. In the end, hit enter to move to the new line and the comment will turn green.




























